# ai-case-study
Assignments - Module 1 Challenge
Microsoft
Overview and Origin
Microsoft is one of the most successful and influential multinational computer technology companies in the world. It was founded in 1975 by Bill Gates and his friend Paul Allen in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The duo was first inspired by a popular magazine called Popular Electronics magazine. They developed their first microprocessor and software for an early personal computer known as the Altair 8800. In 1981, six years after the company was founded, it was incorporated in the state of Washington. Microsoft generated its vast revenues after it created the MS-DOS operating system for IBM in its early stage of growth. By the early 1990s, Microsoft had sold 100 million copies of the program.
Business Activities
Microsoft’s mission statement in the 1980s was to “empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.’ In 2013, former CEO, Steve Ballmer, revised the mission statement to "create a family of devices and services for individuals and businesses that empower people around the globe at home, at work and on the go, for the activities they value most."
Microsoft’s intended customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Microsoft has a vast ecosystem of computer software, data management and investment in AI. It has invested heavily in OpenAI, a ChatGPT company by investing $10 billion. They incorporated the product within their toolsets to introduce AI driven solutions across their products. This gives them an unfair advantage compared to their competitor to build the AI capability and then incorporate the solution to their products.
Microsoft is currently utilizing OpenAI ChatGPT for companies to launch their private versions of ChatGPT with most of their existing products like Office 365, power platform, etc. The companies are using Microsoft Azure to address the company’s data security and to keep their intellectual property in check. The cloud platform provides continuous monitoring and capabilities of OpenAI ChatGPT by using the protection of Azure security policies so that the data is not trained in the public version of OpenAI. Rather a private version of ChatGPT is developed so that the companies do not have to compromise against any of the security threats as it will be easily detected and mitigated without any harmful impact. 
Landscape
Microsoft is a technology company. Initially, Microsoft Office started with three applications: Excel, PowerPoint, and Word. Ten years ago, Microsoft 365 was launched as a suite available by subscription only, and it contained Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, Outlook, Publisher, Access, and Skype. It also launched on-the-go access to Word, Excel, and PowerPoint features. Five years ago, Microsoft launched a coach feature in PowerPoint, a new version of Microsoft To Do and a Personal Vault in OneDrive. Microsoft’s most notable move was to invest heavily with a $13 billion investment with OpenAI. Artificial intelligence, specifically generative AI, focuses on producing automated text, visual and audio responses. Microsoft is integrating the technology into its Bing search engine, sales and marketing software, GitHub coding tools, Microsoft 365 productivity bundle and Azure cloud.
The top Microsoft competitors are:
•	Amazon Web Services (AWS)
•	Google
•	IBM
•	OpenAI
•	Huawei
•	Oracle
•	SAP
•	Alibaba Cloud.
Results
Microsoft’s sales have successfully climbed up as the company’s investments in generative artificial intelligence have unimaginably bolstered in the cloud computing area. Meaningful results are expected in 2024 when more products will be available. According to Microsoft’s CEO, Satya Nadella, more than 18,000 organizations are using MS Azure. Microsoft has reported a 20% spike in quarterly profits, leaving Google, Amazon and Facebook Meta behind to sell the latest AI tech. 
Microsoft uses the following categories as metrics for success:
•	Business Key results: Measures how a company is performing in business and revenue generation. Microsoft uses its on-time and outstanding payments and revenue process to evaluate its success.
•	User Engagement: Tells how the partners, and customers are engaging with products and service categories. Microsoft utilizes seller’s sentiment analysis, accessibility of their products, online meeting and networking to gauge its user’s engagement metrics successfully.
•	Service Excellence tracks quality and performance in managing IT operations. Microsoft monitors incidents auto detection.
•	Compliance shows where they stand in compliance (legal and internal policy compliance). Microsoft offers legal protection for customers who are sued for copyright infringement over content generated by the company’s AI systems. 

Microsoft’s strategic investment in OpenAI has been the key factor for its success over its competitors. Its investment in cloud computing has also resulted in a strong position in the market. Although Microsoft’s competitors are desperately trying to stay afloat in the competition, Microsoft has an unfair advantage of being the first in this area of technology with their heavy investment in OpenAI and this has made them the king of technology.

Recommendations
I would recommend Microsoft to integrate its products to all the devices a user uses by integrating copilot and OpenAI seamlessly rather than separately. Another recommendation would be to create a profile for each user utilizing AI tools and recommend productivity improvements with the business. 
In my opinion, these above services would benefit the company for a seamless experience. The integration will help save time, save costs, improve quality and boost productivity. 
References
Edwards. B. (9/8/2023). Microsoft offers legal protection for AI copyright infringement challenges. Retrieved from https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2023/09/microsoft-offers-legal-protection-for-ai-copyright-infringement-challenges/ 

Gartner. (2023). Competitors and Alternatives to Microsoft. Retrieved from
https://www.gartner.com/reviews/market/cloud-ai-developer-services/vendor/microsoft/alternatives

Microsoft. (2013). Microsoft Annual Report. Retrieved from https://www.microsoft.com/investor/reports/ar13/financial-review/business-description/customers/index.html#:~:text=Our%20customers%20include%20individual%20consumers,%2C%20application%20developers%2C%20and%20OEMs

Microsoft. (6/1/2020). Metrics that matter – how we track our digital transformation. Retrieved from
https://www.microsoft.com/insidetrack/blog/metrics-that-matter-how-we-track-our-digital-transformation/

Microsoft. (1/11/2023). Looking back at 10 years of Microsoft 365 making history. Retrieved from
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365-life-hacks/stories/looking-back-ten-years-microsoft-365

Novet, J. (4/8/2023). Microsoft’s $13 billion bet on OpenAI carries huge potential along with plenty of uncertainty. Retrieved from
https://www.cnbc.com/2023/04/08/microsofts-complex-bet-on-openai-brings-potential-and-uncertainty.html 
O’Brien, M. (07/25/2023). Microsoft reports $20.1B quarterly profit as it promises to lead ‘the new AI platform shift’. Retrieved from
https://apnews.com/article/microsoft-earnings-ai-artificial-intelligence-77481ccc329e32bc0754b8fc9f69a0f7

Weise, K. (10/24/2023). Microsoft’s A.I. Investment Stabilizes Its Cloud Business. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/24/technology/microsoft-quarterly-results.html

Westlake. (n.d.). How secure is Microsoft Azure? Retrieved from 
https://www.westlake-it.co.uk/news/2022/09/23/how-secure-is-microsoft-azure/#:~:text=Everything%20that%20is%20included%20within,1.2%20through%20a%20data%20centre

Zachary, G.P. (10/24/2023). Microsoft Corporation. Retrieved from  https://www.britannica.com/topic/Microsoft-Corporation#ref288467
